Insulin is a hormone.
Cells in your pancreas produce insulin
in response to glucose
a form of sugar in your bloodstream.
Glucose is formed from the breakdown of foods.
It attaches to receptors on
pancreatic cells called beta cells.
They produce, store, and release
granules of insulin into your blood stream.
The insulin attaches to receptors
on cells throughout your body.
Normally, this allows the glucose to enter the cells,
which use the glucose for fuel.
In people with type 2 diabetes,
different mechanisms can prevent
the glucose from entering the cell.
Blood levels of glucose remain high,
which triggers the pancreas to keep producing insulin.
Many people with type 2 diabetes
have normal or high levels of insulin;
this can be enough to overcome
insulin resistance for a while.
Eventually however,
the cycles of high glucose levels
and increased production of insulin
can cause the pancreas to stop
producing insulin altogether.